Add VectorNav driver documentation (#3191)
PX4/PX4-user_guide: en/sensor/vectornav.md

# VectorNav

VectorNav produces [IMU/AHRS](https://www.vectornav.com/resources/inertial-navigation-primer/theory-of-operation/theory-ahrs), [GNSS/INS](https://www.vectornav.com/resources/inertial-navigation-primer/theory-of-operation/theory-gpsins), [Dual GNSS/INS](https://www.vectornav.com/resources/inertial-navigation-primer/theory-of-operation/theory-gnsscompass) systems.

PX4 can use these as an [external INS](../sensor/inertial_navigation_systems.md), bypassing/replacing the EKF2 estimator, or as a source of raw sensor data provided to the estimator.

![VN-300](../../assets/hardware/sensors/inertial/vn-300-smd-rugged.png)

PX4 driver supports [all VectorNav sensors](https://www.vectornav.com/store/products).
In particular the following systems are recommended:

- **VN-200 GNSS/INS:** Recommended for fixed-wing systems without hovering, where static heading is not necessary.

> - **VN-300 DUAL GNSS/INS:** Recommended for multicopter systems where hovering and low dynamics requires the use of static heading.

Reviewer: These are GNSS too. Is there any reason not to add this to the table here: https://docs.px4.io/main/en/gps_compass/#supported-gnss ?

Author: I agree they're technically supported GNSS formats, but they only work with the VN driver enabled so I don't know that they would qualify for documenting in this case

Reviewer: IMO they "qualify" if using the VectorNav you no longer need to purchase a GPS. However we'd need to make clear in the docs that these require different setup. Make sense?

     Alternatively, you can check [CAL_GYROn_ID](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#CAL_GYRO0_ID) to see the device id.
     The priority is 0-255, where 0 is entirely disabled and 255 is highest priority.
     :::

1. Restart PX4

Once enabled, the module will be detected on boot.
IMU data should be published at 800Hz (400Hz if using VN-300).

## VectorNav Configuration

Upon initialization, PX4 configures the VectorNav unit as follows:

- Enables necessary binary outputs
- Disables ASCII outputs on active serial port
- Configures VPE Heading Mode to Absolute
- Autoscans baudrates and configures active port to 921600 bps

All other necessary configuration parameters must be separately loaded to the VectorNav unit manually. These most commonly include:

- `GNSS Antenna A Offset` Necessary if using a GNSS-enabled product and the GNSS antenna is mounted more than 10 cm from the VectorNav unit
- `GNSS Antenna Baseline` Necessary if using a dual-GNSS-enabled product
- `Reference Frame Rotation` Necessary if not mounted as connector-back, base-down
- `IMU Filtering Config` Recommended to adjust the default 200Hz IMU filtering

> After setting these parameters, the settings must be set to persist over a power cycle using a Write Non Volatile command.

Reviewer: What's a 'Write Non Volatile command'? Is there a link? How do we do this?

Author: That's a VectorNav command defined in our ICD, which is where they'd get the definition for the registers mentioned in the prior lines

Reviewer: My assumption is that all of these configuration commands and the Write Non Volatile commands are documented somewhere. Is there a link we can use "To find out more about the parameters and commands see Xxxx"?

## Published Data

Upon initialization, the driver should print the following information to console (printed using `PX4_INFO`)

- Unit model number
- Unit hardware version
- Unit serial number
- Unit firmware number

This should be accessible using the [`dmesg`](../modules/modules_system.md#dmesg) command.

The VectorNav driver publishes the unit's data to the following UOrb topics:

- [external_ins_local_position]()
- [external_ins_global_position]()

> - [external_ins_attitude]()

Reviewer: Can you provide links to these - not sure which UORB topics they are?

Author: @dagar 

I'm surprised not to see these messages in ~/PX4-Autopilot/msg, I thought that anything I can uorb (which I can call uorb external_ins_local_position) would be in that folder. Is there somewhere else it is aliased under, or do I have a misunderstanding?

- [sensor_accel](../msg_docs/SensorAccel.md)

> - [sensor_gyro](../msg_docs/SensorGyro.md)

Reviewer: @julianoes The sensor topic files got renamed to use CamelCase in file names, do we also refer to them now as the CamelCase name, or is the old snake case name used for some reason?

Reviewer 2: I have no idea.

Reviewer: Perhaps @beniaminopozzan knows? The question is, with the UORB topics renamed to camel case for DDS/ROS2, do you know if they are still internally referred to as the old name or the new name is what we should use?

If it is only docs then I'd rename, but I suspect that the topics are still displayed in tools as the snake case format?

## Firmware Configuration

### PX4 Configuration

To use the VectorNav driver:

1. Include the module in firmware in the [kconfig board configuration](../hardware/porting_guide_config.md#px4-board-configuration-kconfig) by setting the kconfig variables: `CONFIG_DRIVERS_INS_VECTORNAV` or `CONFIG_COMMON_INS`.
1. [Set the parameter](../advanced_config/parameters.md) [SENS_VN_CFG](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#SENS_VN_CFG) to the hardware port connected to the VectorNav (for more information see [Serial Port Configuration](../peripherals/serial_configuration.md)).
1. Disable magnetometer preflight checks by setting [SYS_HAS_MAG](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#SYS_HAS_MAG) to `0`.
1. Configure driver as either an external INS or to provide raw data:

   - If using the VectorNav as an external INS, set [VN_MODE](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#VN_MODE) to `INS`. This disables EKF2.
   - If using the VectorNav as external inertial sensors:

     1. Set [VN_MODE](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#VN_MODE) to `Sensors Only`

>      1. If internal sensors are enabled, prioritize VectorNav sensors using [CAL_GYROn_PRIO](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#CAL_GYRO0_PRIO), [CAL_ACCELn_PRIO](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#CAL_ACCEL0_PRIO), [CAL_BAROn_PRIO](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#CAL_BARO0_PRIO), [CAL_MAGn_PRIO](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#CAL_MAG0_PRIO), where _n_ is the instance number of the IMU component (0, 1, etc.).

Reviewer: Fix Acc prio link

```suggestion
     1. If internal sensors are enabled, prioritize VectorNav sensors using [CAL_GYROn_PRIO](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#CAL_GYRO0_PRIO), [CAL_ACCn_PRIO](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#CAL_ACC0_PRIO), [CAL_BAROn_PRIO](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#CAL_BARO0_PRIO), [CAL_MAGn_PRIO](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#CAL_MAG0_PRIO), where _n_ is the instance number of the IMU component (0, 1, etc.).

```

- `GNSS Antenna Baseline` Necessary if using a dual-GNSS-enabled product
- `Reference Frame Rotation` Necessary if not mounted as connector-back, base-down
- `IMU Filtering Config` Recommended to adjust the default 200Hz IMU filtering

After setting these parameters, the settings must be set to persist over a power cycle using a Write Non Volatile command.

## Published Data

Upon initialization, the driver should print the following information to console (printed using `PX4_INFO`)

- Unit model number
- Unit hardware version
- Unit serial number
- Unit firmware number

This should be accessible using the [`dmesg`](../modules/modules_system.md#dmesg) command.

The VectorNav driver always publishes the unit's data to the following UOrb topics:
- [sensor_accel](../msg_docs/SensorAccel.md)
- [sensor_gyro](../msg_docs/SensorGyro.md)
- [sensor_mag](../msg_docs/SensorMag.md)
- [sensor_baro](../msg_docs/SensorBaro.md)
- [sensor_gps](../msg_docs/SensorGps.md)

and, if enabled as an external INS, publishes:

- [vehicle_local_position](../msg_docs/VehicleLocalPosition.md)
- [vehicle_global_positon](../msg_docs/VehicleGlobalPosition.md)
- [vehicle_attitude](../msg_docs/VehicleAttitude.md)

> or, if enabled as external sensor only, publishes:
> - [external_ins_local_position]()
> - [external_ins_global_position]()
> - [external_ins_attitude]()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or, if enabled as external sensor only, publishes:

- `external_ins_local_position`
- `external_ins_global_position`
- `external_ins_attitude`

```

If using a GNSS-enabled product, the GNSS antenna must be mounted rigidly with respect to the inertial sensor and with an unobstructed sky view. If using a dual-GNSS-enabled product (VN-3X0), the secondary antenna must be mounted rigidly with respect to the primary antenna and the inertial sensor with an unobstructed sky view.

For more mounting requirements and recommendations, see the relevant [Quick Start Guide](https://www.vectornav.com/resources/quick-start-guides).

## Firmware Configuration

### PX4 Configuration

To use the VectorNav driver:

1. Include the module in firmware in the [kconfig board configuration](../hardware/porting_guide_config.md#px4-board-configuration-kconfig) by setting the kconfig variables: `CONFIG_DRIVERS_INS_VECTORNAV` or `CONFIG_COMMON_INS`.
1. [Set the parameter](../advanced_config/parameters.md) [SENS_VN_CFG](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#SENS_VN_CFG) to the hardware port connected to the VectorNav (for more information see [Serial Port Configuration](../peripherals/serial_configuration.md)).
1. Disable magnetometer preflight checks by setting [SYS_HAS_MAG](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#SYS_HAS_MAG) to `0`.

> 1. Allow VectorNav driver to initialize by restarting PX4 with [SENS_VN_CFG](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#SENS_VN_CFG) set to nondefault.

Reviewer: I'll remove "with [SENS_VN_CFG](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#SENS_VN_CFG) set to nondefault." - it is already set in previous step, so this is irrelevant.
